
# **venkata mohan kumar jakkula**
Jakkula4@gmail.com || +91-8106963788 || B.Tech (CSE) from NIT Warangal (2010-2014)
 |
| --- |

#


# Experience


### 2022, September – present
**Lead Platform engineer, Paysafe Group India (acquired by Milestone in June 2022), Hyderabad**
- Leading a development team of 5 members.
- Created metrics and alerts using Splunk and Tableau to track the stability of the service, which improved the reaction time for production issues from 2 hours to near real-time.
- Reduced time required for weekly production deployment from 2 hours to less than 1 hour by improving pre-deployment automation.
- Optimized user access to various AWS services in production by creating more restrictive roles to satisfy the regulatory compliance, worked closely with DevOps and InfoSec teams in this process.
- Reduced data quality complaints from customers to ZERO by implementing a versatile data validation feature.
- Reduced cost of AWS EMR cluster by analyzing our usage patterns by 32%.

### 2021, April – 2022, August
**Senior Platform engineer, Paysafe Group India, Hyderabad**
- Implemented automation solution for regulatory reporting, there by reduced effort required for this activity by almost 80%
-Lead 1 developer as part of this project.-Tools: Python (openpyxl, xmltodict)
- _Built data pipeline from CRM tools (Salesforce and Zendesk) to AWS s3 to OLAP DB (Vertica Database) at_ _ **hourly refresh rate** _ _of data to help understanding merchant experience.
 -Built REST APIs to manage/configure the Pipeline._ -Lead 2 developers as part of this project.
-Tools: Java, Apache Spark, AWS Services (S3, Appflow, Lambda, Step functions, SNS), Vertica DB, Java REST services
- Reduced turnaround time of financial transaction data processing from 3 hours to 1 hour. Which resulted in reduction in merchant payout time.
-Tools: Java, AWS Services (S3, Lambda, Step functions, SNS, CloudWatch Events)
- Developed report delivery channel to support report delivery to multiple targets such as SFTP, Email.
-Tools: AWS Services (SES, EventBridge, s3, Lambda) and Java REST services
- Designed and developed REST services with S3 as storage layer to serve reports to business users.
 -Collaborated with UX team to develop the User Interface.
-Tools: AWS Services (SES, EventBridge, s3, Lambda) and Java REST services
###

### 2019, JULY – 2021, April
**Platform engineer, PaySafe Group India, Hyderabad**
- Migrated on premise bigdata pipeline to AWS cloud.
-Tools: Java, Apache Spark, Amazon AWS Services, Apache Kafka, Elasticsearch, Druid
- Automated most of migration tasks to save dev time up to 50%.
-Tools: Python language
- Developed microservices to serve reports generated by bigdata pipelines.
-Tools: Java REST services, AWS Services (IAM, S3)

### 2018, october – 2019, March
**Software engineer, ServiceNow India Development Center, Hyderabad**
- Multi language support for dynamic content of ServiceNow platform
-Tools: Java, JavaScript, ServiceNow platform, Microsoft Translation API
- User Authentication on ServiceNow platform using face recognition.
-Tools: JavaScript, ServiceNow platform, Microsoft Face API

### 2016, August – 2018, September
**IT consultant 1, Oracle India Development Center, Hyderabad** _Oracle cloud billing platform monitoring and alerting system._
- Design and development of scheduled processes for monitoring performance of various modules of application.
- Implemented alert, monitoring and automatic incident creation for various billing and invoicing jobs of Oracle cloud using Java EE, REST Services, Oracle SQL, Eclipse IDE, Openbravo ERP




### 2014, july – 2016, july
**Engineer, United Technologies Corporation, Hyderabad**
- Developed a native iOS app for video streaming for home security application using XCode IDE and Objective-C
_Navigation module for Configuration Software for Fire Safety systems._
- Design and developed of navigation module for fire safety system configuration software using C#.NET and WPF
 |
| --- |
